However, conventional interpersonal word-of-mouth communication is only effective within limited social contact boundaries, and the influence diminishes quickly over time and distance [17].

The challenges and confusion mainly come from three aspects.

1.First, studies differ in their view of the influence of online user reviews.

2.Second, many studies treat word-of-mouth as exogenous [6,7,12,19]. Word-of-mouth, however, is not only the driving forces of consumer purchase but also the outcome of product sales.

3.A cross-sectional setting, however, cannot control for the intrinsic product heterogeneity. In particular, it cannot explain whether the difference in product sales is due to the unobserved differences in product quality or the effect of word-of-mouth.

In addition, we examine the relationship between online word-of-mouth and product sales in a panel data setting to control for individual heterogeneities (consisting of dissimilar or diverse ingredients or constituents).

Our findings challenge conventional thinking by showing that user ratings do not affect movie sales after controlling for endogeneity (caused by factors inside the organism or system) of user reviews and product heterogeneity, suggesting little persuasive effect for online user reviews.

 >Moreover, we find that the number of user reviews online is significantly driven by movie sales, confirming that user review is not only an influencer of, but also an indicator of sales.
The utilization of the Internet as a venue for publicizing feedback and recommendations on products and businesses has gained growing popularity.

Online user reviews can influence product sales through either awareness effects or persuasive effects.

1.Awareness effects indicate that reviews convey the existence of the product and thereby put it in the choice set of consumers.

2.Persuasive effects, in contrast, are to shape consumers' attitudes and evaluation towards the product and ultimately influence their purchase decision.

In this paper, our focus is to examine both the persuasive effect and awareness effect of online user reviews which is critical to understand the influence of online user feedback systems. We use a simultaneous equation system that fully characterizes the interdependent relationship between online user reviews and movie revenues

We measure user review ratings from two different perspectives, i.e. cumulative rating and daily rating. Cumulative rating is the arithmetic average of all the previous user review ratings, while daily rating is the arithmetic average of user review ratings posted in a single day.

Cumulative rating represents the summary score posted by the user review website. Daily rating reflects the most recent word-of-mouth information disseminated by users who have just watched the movie.

Similar to the pattern of box office life cycle of motion pictures, we observed that, for most movies, the number of user reviews skyrockets immediately after the opening and drops significantly afterwards.

The objective of this research is to investigate the impact and characteristics of online word-of-mouth.

Our model fully specifies the dual causal relationship and reveals the true effect of word-of-mouth on movie sales. In contrast to earlier online word-of-mouth studies, we found that higher ratings do not lead to higher sales, but the number of posts is significantly associated with movie sales.

These results suggest that consumers are not influenced by the persuasive effect of online word-of-mouth, although they are affected by awareness effect generated by the underlying process of word-of-mouth.

Businesses shall therefore focus more on the mechanisms that facilitate dispersion of underlying word-of-mouth exchange rather than try to influence online ratings.

We found that word-of-mouth has a greater impact on movie sales in the later period but at the same time the buzz effect of word-of-mouth starts to diminish.

The significant differences between the time periods suggest the importance of employing a dynamic system in studying the effect of word-of-mouth in the digital environment.

Our research has established a relationship between online word-of-mouth information and offline movie sales. However, we did not directly observe how word-of-mouth information would affect consumers' choices and purchasing decisions.

###Summary

Duan, Gu & Whinston (2008) use movie reviews to investigate the online word-of-mouth theory. Their findings indicate that there is no strong correlation between high online rating and the sales, but the massive product reviews can noteblely promote the sales: the number of reviews not only are affected by the reviews, but also can indicate the future trend. Usually, the product reviews have two effects: awareness effects or persuasive effects, which influence consumers' behaviours from different aspects; however, in terms of online sales, the contribution of persuasive effect is not obvious. Also they noticed that the word of mouth effect has different influences in the different phases of sales. According to their experiment design, they suggest that a dynamic analysis of online product review is needed in practice.
