In order to put the theory of random walks into perspective we first discuss, in brief and general terms, the two approaches to predicting stock prices that are commonly espoused by market professionals. These are (1) "chartist" or "technical" theories and (2) the theory of fundamental or intrinsic value analysis.

That is, the various chartist theories assume that the sequence of price changes prior to any given day is important in predicting the price, change for that day.

The techniques of the chartist have always been sur-rounded by a certain degree of mysticism, however, and as a result most market professionals have found them suspect.

If actual prices tend to move toward intrinsic values, then attempting to determine the in-trinsic value of a security is equivalent to making a pre-diction of its future price; and this is the essence of the predictive procedure implicit in fundamental analysis.

For example, we shall see later that if the random walk theory is an accurate description of reality, then the various "technical" or "chartist" procedures for pre-dicting stock prices are completely without value.

Unfortunately, however, most discussions of the theory have appeared in technical academic journals and in a form which the non-mathematician would usually find incomprehensible.

The basic assumption of all the chartist or technical theories is that history tends to repeat itself, i.e., past patterns of price behavior in individual securities will tend to recur in the future.

Essentially, then, chartist techniques attempt to use knowledge of the past behavior of a price series to predict the probable future behavior of the series.

Rather the typical analyst adheres to a technique known as fundamental analysis or the intrinsic value method. The assumption of the fundamental analysis approach is that at any point in time an individual security has an intrinsic value (or in the terms of the economist, an equilibrium price) which depends on the earning poten-tial of the security.

The earning potential of the security depends in turn on such fundamental factors as quality of management, outlook for the industry and the econ-omy, etc.

Random walk theorists usually start from the premise that the major security exchanges are good examples of "efficient" markets.

An "efficient" market is defined as a market where there are large numbers of rational, profit-maximizers actively competing, with each trying to predict future market values of individual securities, and where important current information is almost freely available to all participants.

In other words, in an efficient market at any point in time the actual price of a security will be a good estimate of its intrinsic value.

Now in an uncertain world the intrinsic value of a security can never be determined exactly. Thus there is always room for disagreement among market partici-pants concerning just what the intrinsic value of an individual security is, and such disagreement will give rise to discrepancies between actual prices and intrinsic values.

If the discrepancies between actual prices and intrinsic values are systematic rather than random in nature, then knowledge of this should help intelligent market participants to better predict the path by which actual prices will move towards intrinsic values.

In an efficient market, on the average, competition will cause the full effects of new information on intrinsic values to be reflected "instantaneously" in actual prices.

In fact, however, because there is vagueness or uncer-tainty surrounding new information, "instantaneous adjustment" really has two implications.

1.First, actual prices will initially overadjust to changes in intrinsic values as often as they will underadjust.

2.Second, the lag in the complete adjustment of actual prices to suc-cessive new intrinsic values will itself be an independent.
random variable with the adjustment of actual prices sometimes preceding the occurrence of the event which is the basis of the change in intrinsic values (i.e., when the event is anticipated by the market before it actually occurs) and sometimes following.

This means that the "instantaneous adjustment" property of an efficient market implies that successive price changes in individual securities will be independ-ent. A market where successive price changes in indi-vidual securities are independent is, by definition, a random walk market.

The inde-pendence assumption of the random walk model is valid as long as knowledge of the past behavior of the series of price changes cannot be used to increase expected gains.

The main concern of empirical research on the random walk model has been to test the hypothesis that successive price changes are independent

1.First there is the approach that relies primarily on common statistical tools such as serial correlation coefficients and analyses of runs of consecutive price changes of the same sign.

2.The second approach to testing independence proceeds by testing directly different mechanical trading rules to see whether or not they provide profits greater than buy-and-hold.
I know of no study in which standard statistical tools have pro-duced evidence of important dependence in series of successive price changes.

We should emphasize, however, that although the statistical techniques mentioned above have been the common tools used in testing independence, the chartist or technical theorist probably would not consider them adequate.

A filter of, say, 5 percent is defined as follows: if the daily closing price of a particular security moves up at least 5 percent, buy and hold the security until its price moves down at least 5 percent from a subsequent high, at which time simultaneously sell and go short.

It seems, then, that at least for the purposes of the individual trader or investor, tests of the filter technique also tend to support the random walk model.

That is, the history of the series can be used to make meaningful predictions concerning the future.

In an uncertain world, however, no amount of em-pirical testing is sufficient to establish the validity of a hypothesis beyond any shadow of doubt.

That is, the existence of many sophisticated analysts helps make the market more efficient which in turn implies a market which conforms more closely to the random walk model.

That is, in a random walk - efficient market, on the average, a secur-ity chosen by a mediocre analyst will produce a return no better than that obtained from a randomly selected security of the same general riskiness.

In a random walk - efficient market at any point in time the market price of a security will already reflect the judgments of many analysts concerning the rele-vance of currently available information to the prospects of that security.

If the random walk theory is valid and if security exchanges are "efficient" markets, then stock prices at any point in time will represent good estimates of intrinsic or fundamental values.
