Text-based information is likely to contain factors relevant to equity prices.

While almost all the numbers in the financial statements are historical and backward-looking, texts in corporate annual reports can contain forward-looking information.

Hence, numeric data extracted from financial statements or stock market seem unlikely to be subject to simple stories of limited investor attention.

Second, many of the existing number-based anomalies are highly correlated.

Finally, text-based data may provide additional richness for researchers to test market efficiency.

The power of the market efficiency tests can be improved if the strategic nature of the published disclosure can be exploited (e.g., Sloan (1996)).

This paper examines whether the stock market is efficient with respect to an important source of public information – text in the financial statements.

Consistent with this, managers rarely discuss future performance in an absolutely pessimistic tone in the annual reports.

Many forward-looking statements in the annual reports are written with words such as “may”, “might”, or “could”.

They are also likely to use soft words such as “risk” or “uncertain” to describe adverse information about future performance

More importantly, managers have incentives to disclose their pessimistic views about the future of the firm in annual reports.

To avoid ex post shareholder litigation related to poor earnings, managers are likely to emphasize the future risks in the annual reports if they anticipate bad earnings news in the future.

Consistent with the argument that the emphasis on risk signals poor future performance,I find that an increase in the risk sentiment of annual report is associated with significantly lower future earnings.

The change of the risk sentiment is also negatively related to future returns in a cross-section.

The evidence in this paper suggests that the stock market does not fully reflect the information contained in the texts of annual reports about future profitability

My final sample consists of 34,180 firm-years with annual reports filing dates between calendar years 1994 and 2005.

In particular, I count the frequencies of “risk” (including “risk”, “risks”, and “risky”) and “uncertainty” (including “uncertain”, “uncertainty”, and “uncertainties”).

Since many firms have disclosure about risk-free interest rate (e.g., in their stock option compensation note), any words in the format of “risk-” are excluded in the count.

Confounding strings such as “asterisk” are also excluded.

There are some rough methods in computational linguistics to do this, but the cost seems to outweigh the benefit.

The risk sentiment of annual reports can also predict future returns: Firms with a large increase in risk sentiment experience significantly negative returns relative to those firms with little increase in risk sentiment in the twelve months after the annual report filing date.

Taken together, the evidence in this paper suggests that stock market under-reacts to public information in the text portion of annual reports.

###Summary

Li (2006) analyses the subjective information in 34,180 corporate annual reports from 1994 to 2005, because they may "contain factors relevant to equity prices". According to Skinner (1994), many financial reports tend to use modalities such as "may", "might" or "could" and "soft words" such as "risk" or "uncertain" to discuss the future performance or risk. Moreover, if they know the negative information about future, they may highlight the risk. He focuses on keyword frequency such as "risk" and "uncertainty", and argues that, for more advanced linguistic approaches, "the cost may outweigh the benefit". According to this, Li finds that the lower earrings correlates to the high frequency of risk descriptions. However, the market does not completely correspond to the information in the financial reports. Specifically, he reveals that " firms with a large increase in risk sentiment experience significantly negative returns relatives to those 4 firms with little increase in risk sentiment in the twelve months after the annual report filing date".
