Instead of an ontology or Folksonomy-based classification of relations, which own preliminary studies showed to be less adequate for socio-psychological reasons, relations are characterised as a Cartesian product of weights along characterising axes.

**Goal** of this work is the accurate prediction of these relationship characteristics using all information provided by the communication artefacts, with special focus on linguistic analysis of the message content.

We selected two axes which cover important characteristics of a relation: Emotional intensity is considered to be an indicator of tie strength by (Granovetter 1973). The valence of a relationship is a generalisation of the binary emotional polarity in a signed social network.

From the meta-data of the emails, the application extracts an ego-centric social network with the survey participant as the ego, and asks him or her to rate each relationship in terms of emotional intensity and valence.

Given a social network graph and the associated messages provided by the survey application, the task is to predict the weights corresponding to emotional intensity and valence.

To avoid giving an inappropriate weight to these parts of text, quotations are detected heuristically and removed. Some email systems automatically append a signature to the message body, which is discarded as well.

There are two kinds of features:

1.Message features are generated by analysing each message associated with the relationship and computing the arithmetic mean of all presage feature values.

2.Relationship features represent statistic properties of the whole set of messages and are computed once per relationship.

The choice of features depends on the attribute of the relationship that is to be predicted. An entry of “inv.” indicates that the feature value is inverted: v' = 1 − v

**Feature reduction**:

1. A simple method is to compute the arithmetic mean of the components, so that each feature is given the same weight, and each feature vector is treated individually.

2. Principal Component Analysis (PCA) is a method for transforming a data set into a lower dimensional space while minimising the loss of variance: The data is transformed linearly, so that the direction of highest variance (principal component) coincides with the first axis, etc.

3. A third method of dimensionality reduction uses Self-Organising Maps (SOM) developed by (Kohonen 1982). A SOM consists of a fixed number of vectors in the input data space (“ neurones”), which are arranged as a “map” in a lower dimensional space. Neurons are initialised randomly and move towards areas with a high density of data points in an iterative process. Whenever a neurone moves, its neighbours on the map move as well.

Sentiment directed towards the recipient has to be distinguished from sentiment directed towards the subject of the message when computing the feature value: Under the assumption that each message has a central subject matter, sentiment towards the recipient is concentrated in the beginning and end.

**Sentiment polarity classification on the level of individual words can be considered a sequence labelling problem, where each word in a sentence is to be assigned a label from a set of polarity classes**.

Conditional Random Fields (CRF) as devised by (Lafferty, McCallum, and Pereira 2001) were chosen as the learning method because of their efficiency in handling large feature vectors according to the maximum entropy principle. The CRF implementation of the MALLET toolkit 2.0-RC4 (McCallum 2002) is used.

One way to integrate such information is supervised training of the predictor, either directly by annotating some relationships, or indirectly via feedback about the prediction accuracy. This is often undesirable, especially in the case of large scale data mining.

###Summary

Groh & Hauffa (2011) evaluate the sentiment polarity in paired emails, trying to accurately understand the relationship between authors and receivers. They extract 11 features of each email, and classify the features into 2 categories: relationship feature and message feature, by which, the sample emails can be categorised by reducing the features. Considering the unigram feature as a sequence labeling problem, they use CRF algorithm (an branch of MaxEnt) to do unsupervised training. However, this small-scale analysis provides limited contribution in terms of sentiment analysis, thus, a larger-scale investigation in needed.
