We study various filtering approaches such as using the stock symbol, the company name or variations of the two. We also evaluate the effects of expanding this set of tweets by including closely related tweets.

Our results show that the most correlated features are the number of connected components and the number of nodes of the interaction graph.

The correlation is stronger with the traded volume than with the price of the stock.

However, by using a simulator we show that even relatively small correlations between price and micro-blogging features can be exploited to drive a stock trading strategy that outperforms other baseline strategies.

On these graphs, which we call constrained subgraphs, we define a large number of features, divided in two groups: activity-based and graph-based features.

Activity-based features measure quantities such as the number of hashtags, the number of tweets, and so on. Graph-based features capture the link-structure of the graph.

Our first key result is that the traded volume for a stock is correlated with the number of connected components in its constrained subgraph, as well as with the number of tweets in the graph.

Surprisingly, it is slightly more correlated with the number of connected components.

On the other hand, the stock price is not strongly correlated with any of the features we extracted, but it is only slightly correlated with the number of connected components and even less with the number of nodes in the constrained subgraph.

We use a series of regular expressions that find the name of the company, including the company ticker name and hash-tags associated with the company.

The problem here is that a single URL can be referred to as several different short URLs. We solve this calling the interface of URL shortening services to get the original URLs

We define two tweets to be similar if the Jaccard Distance between the bag of words for both tweets is greater than some value α. We set α = 0.8 in our experiments, which is a conservative setting, meaning that tweets having this level of similarity are almost always re-tweets or minor variations of each other.

Additionally, nodes and edges have timestamps at a granularity of one day, corresponding to the granularity of our stock-market time series. Tweets are timestamped with the day they were posted.

We use the cross-correlation coefficient (CCF) to estimate how variables are related at different time lags.

We show that the number of connected components of the constrained subgraph is generally the best feature in terms of correlation, especially in relation to traded volume.
